the last operation we need to implement
is remove last now before we do this I
actually want to take a step back and
think carefully about the users mental
model what is that we're trying to
capture
so it's imagine the user is inserted as
far as they're concerned five three one
seven twenty two and then finally they
call at last minus one they built this
list so this is more or less what the
users thinking about okay now the user
calls remove last and what do we expect
well we expect that minus one goes away
that's the mental model the user is
thinking about now our job as the
implementer of this abstract data type
of this list is that it needs to behave
the way the user wants to and beyond
that it doesn't matter what we do as
long as the behavior is correct so in
this approach our concrete reality the
actual truthy we have designed is to use
this array to hold all the information
and at this moment our goal is to
manipulate this concrete reality to
match the user's abstract mental model
now there are many ways we could have
done it in fact in the previous lecture
the actual truth looked nothing like
this at all there was a D list that it
was a recursively defined data structure
you know we did all that work for that
and it was a totally different way of
implementing it but as far as the user
was concerned that behavior was exactly
the same
there's actually a lot of parallels with
the Plato's allegory of the cave from
you know 2,500 years ago so the user the
person using the list data structure
here they basically have a specific
reality that they can see that hopefully
they can actually interact with and it
behaves in a way that makes sense we by
contrast are these monks we're the
implementers we're one level of
abstraction up and our job is to
manipulate these little figures so that
there's show they're seeing actually
matches what they expect and if they try
to you know shoot this thing with their
finger like shoot the bird then this
guy's job is to lower the bird and show
that the bird has been defeated or
whatever now unlike Plato's allegory of
the cave where we might imagine using
our knowledge to divine the nature of
reality and climb out and be free we do
not want to do that as programmers the
person in the cave does not care about
the world out here and in fact a lot of
the progress in computer sites is being
willfully ignorant about
the outside world that's one of the
glorious things about Java for example
the private keyword says no this world
is forbidden to you you are not allowed
to see it and that makes it easier to
live the life that you want so that said
let's imagine trying to write remove
last so as the manipulators of reality
as those who need are charged with
changing the concrete representation to
match the abstract what memory boxes
actually need to change now one thing
I'm gonna mention is that the invariance
that we've created here they actually
provide us with a guide they're a set of
rules that these characters here can use
to manipulate the figures to match their
expectations of the user and as long as
we follow these we should be in good
shape so all of that said some
philosophy aside try and imagine what
memory boxes need to change and I'll
wait here and let you ponder